At Isaiah 40:4, 5,
Jehovah says he would remove
seemingly insurmountable obstacles
so the Jews could return to Jerusalem.
The account says:
“Let every valley be raised up,
“and every mountain and hill be made low.
“The rough ground must become level,
“and the rugged ground a valley plain.
“The glory of Jehovah will be revealed,
“and all flesh will see it together,
for the mouth of Jehovah has spoken.”
This inspiring prophecy
was initially fulfilled in 537 B.C.E.
There is nothing that can stand in the way
of what Jehovah wants accomplished.
In this report, we will see clear evidence
of Jehovah’s support
on theocratic projects today
despite a pandemic, supply chain shortages,
and other challenges.
For example,
the February 2020 announcement
featured in the JW Newsroom
informed us
that the Cameroon branch relocation project
finished shortly before the outbreak
of COVID-19.
Just in time, the Bethel family had a home
where they could safely shelter in place
during the pandemic and still care
for the Kingdom work
and more than 48,000 publishers
in that branch territory.
The Argentina Bethel family
also moved into their new branch facility
in Buenos Aires shortly thereafter.
The move, which was organized
in compliance with COVID-19 safety protocols,
began in July 2021.
The Bethel family saw numerous examples
of Jehovah leveling out
overwhelming challenges
during the pandemic.
The successful completion
of the new branch facilities
in the midst of that turmoil
has already given
a great witness to the community.
It has allowed the Bethel family to focus
on caring for close to 170,000 publishers
in that branch territory.
What a blessing to have these new facilities
to support the Kingdom preaching work!
What about projects happening right now?
Listen closely as we hear updates
from brothers in Italy,
Congo, and Angola.
The Italy branch is relocating its facilities
to the city of Bologna in northern Italy,
which is located about 370 kilometers,
or 230 miles, from Rome.
Initially, the Construction Project Committee
wanted to use our brothers and sisters
as volunteers.
However, at a certain point, it was decided
to rely on an outside development company,
both for the design and renovation
of the office building that was purchased
as well as for the design and construction
of the residential buildings.
When this decision was made,
we did not imagine
that a few months afterward
we would not be able to use our volunteers
because at the beginning of 2020,
COVID-19 struck northern Italy,
including the city of Bologna.
As a consequence, the government
suspended activities, including construction.
After about one month,
they lifted the restrictions.
And as a result,
we could get back in touch with the companies
and continue the work
while respecting government protocol
and direction from our organization.
Thanks to Jehovah’s direction,
despite the pandemic,
we are happy to see how this project
is moving forward
much faster than we expected.
And we look forward to being able
to move into these new buildings
by the end of 2024.
In 2012, we had a little over
168,000 publishers in our branch territory.
By the end of 2021,
the total number of publishers grew
to more than 209,000 publishers.
Because it was impractical
to expand the branch facility in Kinshasa,
we looked for property
that could care for the immediate
and future needs of the branch.
We purchased property
in the country’s second-largest city,
Lubumbashi,
where a developer
was already building housing
and office units.
The developer already had
the zoning, permits,
and completed design packages.
This saved much time
and allowed the project to move ahead
with minimal disruption
even during the pandemic,
and we were happy for that.
For the internal work of the new offices,
we needed a contractor
who could design and install
to the standards of our organization
and within the project budget.
We knew this would be hard to find in Congo
—and even harder
with the limitations of the pandemic.
One of the suppliers that we use
for food and relief supplies in the area
mentioned to us
that they have a partner company
who specializes in construction
and is newly active in the country.
We didn’t expect
that the answer to this challenge
would come from this unusual direction.
But we were surprised to find
that they did in fact qualify
to meet the high standards and expectations
of such a branch project.
As the relationship grew, we saw
fine collaboration between our teams,
and they continue to work along with us
now as the project expands.
We truly have seen
Jehovah smoothing out the path
for this project.
We have already started moving
some Bethelites to this new site
and look forward to the project’s completion
in mid-2024.
In December 2021,
a building was purchased that will provide
additional rooms and offices
for the Bethel family at our branch.
This building is located
about a ten-minute walk
from the current Bethel facility.
Because of the restrictions
imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic,
the entire process
for the acquisition of this building,
even including the verification
of the legal aspects,
had to be done by videoconference.
During the last week
of the negotiation process
when there were just five days remaining
to sign the purchase and sale agreement
and during a stage
in which the negotiation team
from the branch and the seller
had already agreed
on the purchase and sale price,
we discovered that the structure
of the building needed some repairs
and reinforcement in some areas.
How did the team negotiating the purchase
handle this obstacle?
The seller was asked
to take responsibility for the repairs
and to reinforce the building’s structure,
closely following the engineering details
that would be provided by the branch.
After several prayers
by the branch’s negotiation team,
the seller accepted the responsibility
and even paid for all the expenses
involved in this repair.
The repair was completed.
And shortly after,
the work to completely renovate the building
began.
We look forward to seeing
some of the Bethel family
move into this new building in early 2024.
In addition to these new branch facilities,
we also have many other needs to fill.
For example, in order to train
brothers and sisters
to carry out the preaching and teaching work,
there continues to be a need
for theocratic school facilities.
In Madagascar,
the branch hosted classes at Bethel
because they didn’t have
any other suitable facilities.
Well, in June 2021,
they finished construction
of a new school facility
and will now be able to schedule
up to four classes there each year.
Currently,
there are over 40 existing school facilities
and we have around 20
active school facility projects
at various stages of development.
What about facilities to support
the growing media production
of the organization?
We’re happy to report
that we have finished the studio projects
at the South Africa and Australasia branches.
In Australasia,
that includes the backlot that is used
for The Good News According to Jesus
video series.
Soon, if Jehovah wills,
we will begin construction
on the new site in Ramapo, New York.
We look forward to seeing how Jehovah
uses this facility
to care for the needs of his people.
It is clear that neither the pandemic
nor ongoing turmoil in this world
has been able to stop
theocratic building projects.
And as world conditions
continue to deteriorate,
we are confident
that the words of Isaiah 40:4, 5
will be true for us.
Yes, Jehovah will help us overcome
any mountainlike obstacles that we face.
We earnestly pray for Jehovah to bless these
and future building projects.
And we thank you dear brothers and sisters
for supporting them by means of your prayers,
skills, time, and resources.
May all praise and glory
go to our great God, Jehovah,
who continues to clear the way for us!